# Heart-Disease-Classifecation
Today, heart disease have become one of the leading causes of deaths in nationwide. The best prevention for this disease is to have an early system that can predict the early symptoms which can save more life. 

Recently research in data mining had gained a lot of attention and had been used in different kind of application including in medical. The use of data mining techniques can help researchers in predicting the probability of getting heart disease among susceptible patients, among prior studies, several researchers articulated their efforts for finding a best possible techniques for heart disease prediction model. The result of this project will help towards developing an understanding of the recent methodologies used for heart disease prediction models. 
In the current research study, a performance analysis on four supervised machine learning algorithms has been performed i.e, k nearest neighbors, logistic regression, Randomforest, Catboat over sciki-learn ml framework on medical data for patients with heart disorder. The purpose of the research study the effect of feature correlation on classification model with over seven different performance metrics. Research study revealed that logistic regression is top in classification patients with disorders with over 80% accuracy.


Today, heart disease have become one of the leading causes of deaths in nationwide. The best prevention for this disease is to have an early system that can predict the early symptoms which can save more life. 
This project object is to detect whether patients have heart disease or not by giving a number of features from patients. The motivation of this project is to save human resource in medical centers and improve accuracy of diagnosis.
Recently research in data mining had gained a lot of attention and had been used in different kind of application including in medical. The use of data mining techniques can help researchers in predicting the probability of getting heart disease among susceptible patients, Among prior studies, several researchers articulated their efforts for finding a best possible techniques for heart disease prediction model. The result of this project will help towards developing an understanding of the recent methodologies used for heart disease prediction models. 

This project present analysis results of significant data mining techniques that can be used in developing highly accurate and efficient prediction model which will help doctors in reducing the number of deaths cause by heart disease.
Research study revealed that logistic regression is top in classification patients with disorders with over 85% accuracy.

Our problem is that we went to predict whether patients have heart disease by giving some features of users. This is important to medical fields. If such a prediction is accurate enough, We can not only avoid wrong diagnosis but also save human resources. When a patient without a heart disease is diagnosed with heart disease, he will fall into unnecessary panic and when a patient with heart disease is not diagnosed with heart disease, he will miss the best chance to cure his disease. Such wrong diagnosis is painful to both patients and hospitals. 
With accurate prediction, we can solve the unnecessary trouble. Besides, if we will save human resource because we do not need complicated diagnosis process in hospitals..

